Welcome to my Portfolio! Please feel free to take a look around! 

My name is Caleb Farrelly and I'm a Senior at Cornell University studying Mechanical Engineering. I plan on completing a Masters of Engineering in Aerospace at Cornell (expected completion December 2025).

My projects include Hybrid Rocket Test Stand, Hybrid Rocket Engines, and Work Samples from non-confidential internships



Photo: Hybrid Rocket Test Stand 
Duke Photonics Laboratory Internship 

Successfully designed, built, and tested a specialized optical microscope to align and test nanoscale photonic devices

Redesigned microscope motion control to improve smoothness, and isolate microscope from vibrations
Supersonic 3D printed Rocket Project 

Designed and 3D printed a mortar launched rocket in an attempt to break the sound barrier with a black powder rocket engine. 
Rocketry Outreach Program:
Established rocketry outreach program engaging 70+ disadvantaged middle & elementary students with hands-on science & engineering– making rocket fuel, building and launching Estes rockets
Helios Engineering Internship 

Key Action Items:

● Designed vacuum furnace lift in Solidworks, outsourced machining of components and successfully installed device
● Conducted research and successfully developed a procedure to 3D print components in-house with novel ceramics
● Supported lab team with rapid prototyping and taught co-workers how to 3D print with FDM and resin printers
● Created vacuum assemblies to withstand temperatures up to 1900°C to enable material science experiments
Heat testing 3D printed novel ceramic crucible 
Stainless Steel Vacuum Furnace adapter
3D printed Inconel Cube 
Bumblebee AI CAD/Drawings 

1. Electronics enclosure 
2. Vibrating pollination wheel assembly 
3. Metal pollination wheel drawing 
Bumblebee AI (now BloomX) artificial pollination internship 

Key Action Items:

● Designed several critical components of the pollination device using Solidworks
● Traveled to Mexico for a field trial and brainstormed solutions to reduce part breakage while in the field
● Optimized 3D printer parameters to fabricate production quality parts, while minimizing filament use
● Took charge of constructing electronic control boxes, modified circuit diagrams and wired components

Hybrid Test Stand Cold Flow test using liquid CO2 


The Hybrid Rocket Test Stand was one of my main projects as Hybrid Propulsion lead of the Cornell Rocketry team. I was responsible for bringing the test stand from clean sheet to cold-flow testing in one semester. 

Project Overview: 
The purpose of this test stand is to allow the propulsion team to test all aspects of hybrid engine design under a controlled environment while collecting data on key variables, such as thrust, fluid system pressure, and oxidizer mass flow rate. The hybrid test stand will allow the Cornell Rocketry Team to test hybrid rocket engines producing up to 1000 lbf of thrust. \n
The test stand features Marotta PLV-34 and MV-524 solenoid valves, semi-active tank pressurization, a servo valve, and a nitrogen purge system. 


Key Action Items: 

● Lead creation of hybrid propulsion test stand from preliminary design to successful cold flow testing in one semester

● Designed fluid system and created piping and instrumentation diagram (P&ID) for hybrid propulsion test stand

● Presented fluid system design reviews to Cornell aerospace industry alumni and Marotta Controls’ aerospace division

● Guided team members in the creation of shop drawings and assisted in machining their components

● Verified N2O flow rates and purge/pressurization performance using thermodynamics and fluid dynamics calculations

● Guided members in designing modular N2O oxidizer injector, mechanically actuated valve, and oxidizer vent system

Skills: Project management, Bridgeport Mill machining, Solidworks CAD assemblies and components, drawings, pressure vessel design, fluid system design, creating propulsion testing procedures, MATLAB 
Hybrid Test Stand SOLIDWORKS CAD

I designed the architecture of the test stand and created the Solidworks assembly 
Hybrid Fluid System P&ID
SRAD Hybrid Test Stand Run Tank 
The run tank is an aluminum 6061 pressure vessel that contains the oxidizer, liquid N2O. 
I was responsible for designing, coordinating the manufacturing of, and conducting testing on the run tank. 
This greatly shortened lead times and saved the team over $3000 by avoiding outsourcing costs. 
Run Tank Solidworks Model 
Hydrostatically Testing Run Tank to 1500 PSI 
Run Tank Bulkhead and Casing Drawings 
Liquid CO2 sprays from dip tube indicating that run tank is at maximum capacity
Successful hotfire of 260lbf subscale hybrid engine

Project Overview: 

The 260 lbf hybrid rocket engine was designed as a scaled test to validate key components of our hybrid motor design, specifically the injector, liner, and nozzle. We also aimed to verify the accuracy of our hybrid engine simulation script by comparing its predictions to actual hot fire test results. The simulation proved highly accurate, predicting the peak thrust within 10 lbf of the measured value.

Following the success of the 260 lbf test, which confirmed the integrity of our design, we redesigned the engine to target a thrust output of 950 lbf, utilizing the same design script. We also re-engineered the injector and retention ring to reduce manufacturing complexity. 

 We conducted two hot fire tests with the redesigned motor, achieving a peak thrust of 400 lbf. The discrepancy in thrust was due to the injector plate lacking the correct number of orifices. 

To address this, I revisited the injector design, refining our injector plate calculations based on both the hot fire data and insights from the Benjamin Waxman paper on nitrous oxide injectors. These updates improved the accuracy of our predictions for future tests and ensured better alignment between our theoretical models and experimental outcomes.

Key Action Items: 

● Lead the design and development of a hybrid propulsion test stand, subscale and full-scale hybrid engine from concept through to successful hot fire, generating 260 lbf of thrust and 400 lbf thrust respectively

● Wrote MATLAB hybrid rocket design tool to calculate fuel grain dimensions, oxidizer load, throat diameter, and thrust

● CNC machined over 40 unique components on 3- and 4-axis HAAS mills, accumulating over 175 hours of experience

Full Scale Hybrid Rocket Engine design and Simulation output
Hybrid Injector body and plate that I machined on the HAAS 
Manufactured threaded nozzle retention ring on HAAS mill
Designed and machined wrench to install nozzle retention ring
Designed and machined oxidizer tank bulkhead 
Assembled oxidizer tank 
